README.md, before:

# s2gen - static site generator

This is a simple static site generator written in Scala for my web-site [appliedscala.com](http://appliedscala.com/). It uses Freemarker as a template engine and assumes that you write the content in Markdown. The generator supports the monitor mode, comes with an embedded Web server and stays completely unopinionated about organizing front-end assets.

It should work well on any operating system provided that JRE8 is installed.

## Getting started

Download the latest release from [the release page](https://github.com/denisftw/s2gen/releases/latest)

Extract the downloaded package to any directory and add `s2gen`
executable to the `PATH`. To achieve that, you can edit your `.bashrc`:

```bash
S2GEN=/home/user/DevTools/s2gen
PATH=$S2GEN/bin:$PATH
```

Initialize a skeleton project in an empty directory by typing the following:

```
$ s2gen -init
```

The following directory structure will be generated:

```
$ tree -L 4
.
├── content
│   └── blog
│       └── 2016
│           └── hello-world.md
├── s2gen.json
├── site
│   └── css
│       └── styles.css
└── templates
    ├── about.ftl
    ├── archive.ftl
    ├── blog.ftl
    ├── footer.ftl
    ├── header.ftl
    ├── index.ftl
    ├── info.ftl
    ├── main.ftl
    ├── menu.ftl
    ├── page.ftl
    ├── post.ftl
    └── sitemap.ftl

6 directories, 13 files

```

The example configuration can be found in `s2gen.json`.
The default settings are mostly fine, but feel free to change the `site.host` and `server.port` properties.
In order to generate the site, simply type `s2gen`:

```
$ s2gen
[15:20:11.513] [INFO ] S2Generator - Cleaning previous version of the site
[15:20:11.518] [INFO ] S2Generator - Generation started
[15:20:11.707] [INFO ] S2Generator - Successfully generated: <archive>
[15:20:11.709] [INFO ] S2Generator - Successfully generated: <sitemap>
[15:20:11.711] [INFO ] S2Generator - Successfully generated: <index>
[15:20:11.712] [INFO ] S2Generator - Successfully generated: <about>
[15:20:11.722] [INFO ] S2Generator - Successfully generated: 2016/hello-world.md
[15:20:11.724] [INFO ] S2HttpServer - Starting the HTTP server
[15:20:11.727] [INFO ] S2Generator - Generation finished
[15:20:11.738] [INFO ] log - Logging initialized @980ms
[15:20:11.771] [INFO ] Server - jetty-9.3.11.v20160721
[15:20:11.845] [INFO ] AbstractConnector - Started ServerConnector@562457e1{HTTP/1.1}{0.0.0.0:8080}
[15:20:11.845] [INFO ] Server - Started @1090ms
[15:20:11.845] [INFO ] S2HttpServer - The HTTP server has been started on port 8080
[15:20:11.845] [INFO ] S2Generator - Registering a file watcher
[15:20:12.135] [INFO ] S2Generator - Waiting for changes...
```

After generating, **s2gen** switches to the monitor mode and starts waiting for file changes.

It also starts an embedded Jetty server on a port specified in `s2gen.json` as the `server.port` property.
If you don't want to start a server in the monitor mode, start **s2gen** with the `-noserver` flag.

If you don't need the monitor mode, you can start **s2gen** with the `-once` flag. 
In this case, the site is generated only once, after which **s2gen** quits.

Generated HTML files will be placed to the site directory.
Frontend assets (styles, scripts, images, fonts) could also be added
to this directory manually, and **s2gen** will not touch them.

### Custom templates

The bootstrap example generates the About page as a custom template. In order to add a custom template,
you must place the Freemarker file in the `templates` directory and add it to the `templates.custom` list in `s2gen.json`:

```json
{
  "templates": {
    "custom": ["about.ftl"]
  }
}
```

For `about.ftl`, the output HTML file will be placed into `./site/about/index.html`, so it can be referenced as follows:

```html
<a href="/about">About</a>
```

Custom templates also have access to common site properties like `title` and `description`.

## Testing the site

**s2gen** comes with an embedded Jetty server, which starts automatically in the monitor mode and serves static content from the output directory.
This is more than enough for testing, so you don't need to install anything else.

## Available template values

Inside the template, you will have access to the following values as they are defined in `s2gen.json`:

|reference|description|
|---------|-----------|
|`site.title`|The title of the site|
|`site.description`|The description of the site|
|`site.host`|The host name including `http(s)` but excluding the trailing slash|
|`site.lastmod`|Tha last modification data of the site as a whole in `YYYY-MM-DD` format|
|`site.title`|The title of the site|

Posts have several more values available to them. In particular, the `date` and `status` properties are mandatory in the header section of Markdown content files, and they are available in templates as follows:

|reference|description|
|---------|-----------|
|`content.date`|The date of the post in `YYYY-MM-DD` format|
|`content.status`|The status of the post. The post is not added to the blog until it's `published`|

The following values are available automatically to all posts:

|reference|description|
|---------|-----------|
|`content.body`|The rendered HTML of the post|
|`content.preview`|The HTML version of the preview section (see the example for the preview markers)|
|`content.previewText`|The text version of the preview section (see the example for the preview markers)|

You can also add other values by putting custom keys to the header section of the Markdown file. 
They will be available in templates as well. For example the `title` property will be available as `content.title` and so on.


## Copyright and License

Licensed under the MIT License, see the LICENSE file.

Commit message:

Adding custom XML generation, adding new date values, updating Monix and Circe dependencies

README.md, after:

# s2gen - static site generator

This is a simple static site generator written in Scala for my web-site [appliedscala.com](http://appliedscala.com/). It uses Freemarker as a template engine and assumes that you write the content in Markdown. The generator supports the monitor mode, comes with an embedded Web server and stays completely unopinionated about organizing front-end assets.

It should work well on any operating system provided that JRE8 is installed.

## Getting started

Download the latest release from [the release page](https://github.com/denisftw/s2gen/releases/latest)

Extract the downloaded package to any directory and add `s2gen`
executable to the `PATH`. To achieve that, you can edit your `.bashrc`:

```bash
S2GEN=/home/user/DevTools/s2gen
PATH=$S2GEN/bin:$PATH
```

Initialize a skeleton project in an empty directory by typing the following:

```
$ s2gen -init
```

The following directory structure will be generated:

```
$ tree -L 4
.
├── content
│   └── blog
│       └── 2016
│           └── hello-world.md
├── s2gen.json
├── site
│   └── css
│       └── styles.css
└── templates
    ├── about.ftl
    ├── archive.ftl
    ├── blog.ftl
    ├── footer.ftl
    ├── header.ftl
    ├── index.ftl
    ├── info.ftl
    ├── main.ftl
    ├── menu.ftl
    ├── page.ftl
    ├── post.ftl
    └── sitemap.ftl

6 directories, 13 files

```

The example configuration can be found in `s2gen.json`.
The default settings are mostly fine, but feel free to change the `site.host` and `server.port` properties.
In order to generate the site, simply type `s2gen`:

```
$ s2gen
[15:20:11.513] [INFO ] S2Generator - Cleaning previous version of the site
[15:20:11.518] [INFO ] S2Generator - Generation started
[15:20:11.707] [INFO ] S2Generator - Successfully generated: <archive>
[15:20:11.709] [INFO ] S2Generator - Successfully generated: <sitemap>
[15:20:11.711] [INFO ] S2Generator - Successfully generated: <index>
[15:20:11.712] [INFO ] S2Generator - Successfully generated: <about>
[15:20:11.722] [INFO ] S2Generator - Successfully generated: 2016/hello-world.md
[15:20:11.724] [INFO ] S2HttpServer - Starting the HTTP server
[15:20:11.727] [INFO ] S2Generator - Generation finished
[15:20:11.738] [INFO ] log - Logging initialized @980ms
[15:20:11.771] [INFO ] Server - jetty-9.3.11.v20160721
[15:20:11.845] [INFO ] AbstractConnector - Started ServerConnector@562457e1{HTTP/1.1}{0.0.0.0:8080}
[15:20:11.845] [INFO ] Server - Started @1090ms
[15:20:11.845] [INFO ] S2HttpServer - The HTTP server has been started on port 8080
[15:20:11.845] [INFO ] S2Generator - Registering a file watcher
[15:20:12.135] [INFO ] S2Generator - Waiting for changes...
```

After generating, **s2gen** switches to the monitor mode and starts waiting for file changes.

It also starts an embedded Jetty server on a port specified in `s2gen.json` as the `server.port` property.
If you don't want to start a server in the monitor mode, start **s2gen** with the `-noserver` flag.

If you don't need the monitor mode, you can start **s2gen** with the `-once` flag. 
In this case, the site is generated only once, after which **s2gen** quits.

Generated HTML files will be placed to the site directory.
Frontend assets (styles, scripts, images, fonts) could also be added
to this directory manually, and **s2gen** will not touch them.

### Custom templates

The bootstrap example generates the About page as a custom template. In order to add a custom template,
you must place the Freemarker file in the `templates` directory and add it to the `templates.custom` list in `s2gen.json`:

```json
{
  "templates": {
    "custom": ["about.ftl"],
    "customXml": ["feed.ftl", "sitemap.ftl"]
  }
}
```

For `about.ftl`, the output HTML file will be placed into `./site/about/index.html`, so it can be referenced as follows:

```html
<a href="/about">About</a>
```

For `feed.ftl` and `sitemap.ftl`, the output XML files will be put into the `./site` directory.

Custom templates also have access to common site properties like `title` and `description`.

## Testing the site

**s2gen** comes with an embedded Jetty server, which starts automatically in the monitor mode and serves static content from the output directory.
This is more than enough for testing, so you don't need to install anything else.

## Available template values

Inside the template, you will have access to the following values as they are defined in `s2gen.json`:

|reference|description|
|---------|-----------|
|`site.title`|The title of the site|
|`site.description`|The description of the site|
|`site.host`|The host name including `http(s)` but excluding the trailing slash|
|`site.lastmod`|Tha last modification data of the site as a whole in `YYYY-MM-DD` format (for `sitemap`)|
|`site.title`|The title of the site|

Posts have several more values available to them. In particular, the `date` and `status` properties are mandatory in the header section of Markdown content files, and they are available in templates as follows:

|reference|description|
|---------|-----------|
|`content.date`|The date of the post in `YYYY-MM-DD` format|
|`content.dateJ`|The date of the post as `java.util.Date`|
|`content.status`|The status of the post. The post is not added to the blog until it's `published`|

The following values are available automatically to all posts:

|reference|description|
|---------|-----------|
|`content.body`|The rendered HTML of the post|
|`content.preview`|The HTML version of the preview section (see the example for the preview markers)|
|`content.previewText`|The text version of the preview section (see the example for the preview markers)|

Custom templates (both XML and HTML) and the archive template have access to the following:

|reference|description|
|---------|-----------|
|`posts`|All published posts sorted by date as `java.util.List`|
|`site.lastPubDateJ`|The date of the last post as `java.util.Date`|
|`site.lastBuildDateJ`|The date of the last site generation as `java.util.Date`|


You can also add other values by putting custom keys to the header section of the Markdown file. 
They will be available in templates as well. For example the `title` property will be available as `content.title` and so on.


## Copyright and License

Licensed under the MIT License, see the LICENSE file.
